docs/tooling.md, before:

# Recommended 3rd-party tools

Check out the [Bevy Assets](https://bevyengine.org/assets/) page for more great options.

## Libraries

A few libraries that the authors of this template have vetted and think you might find useful:

| Name                                                                                   | Category       | Description                           |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| [`leafwing-input-manager`](https://github.com/Leafwing-Studios/leafwing-input-manager) | Input          | Input -> Action mapping               |
| [`bevy-inspector-egui`](https://github.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui)        | Debugging      | Live entity inspector                 |
| [`bevy_mod_debugdump`](https://github.com/jakobhellermann/bevy_mod_debugdump)          | Debugging      | Schedule inspector                    |
| [`avian`](https://github.com/Jondolf/avian)                                            | Physics        | Physics engine                        |
| [`bevy_rapier`](https://github.com/dimforge/bevy_rapier)                               | Physics        | Physics engine (not ECS-driven)       |
| [`bevy_common_assets`](https://github.com/NiklasEi/bevy_common_assets)                 | Asset loading  | Asset loaders for common file formats |
| [`bevy_asset_loader`](https://github.com/NiklasEi/bevy_asset_loader)                   | Asset loading  | Asset management tools                |
| [`iyes_progress`](https://github.com/IyesGames/iyes_progress)                          | Asset loading  | Progress tracking                     |
| [`bevy_kira_audio`](https://github.com/NiklasEi/bevy_kira_audio)                       | Audio          | Advanced audio                        |
| [`bevy_cobweb_ui`](https://github.com/UkoeHB/bevy_cobweb_ui)                           | UI             | UI framework               |
| [`bevy_egui`](https://github.com/mvlabat/bevy_egui)                                    | UI / Debugging | UI framework (great for debug UI)     |
| [`tiny_bail`](https://github.com/benfrankel/tiny_bail)                                 | Error handling | Error handling macros                 |

In particular:.

- `leafwing-input-manager` is very likely to be upstreamed into Bevy in the near future.
- `bevy-inspector-egui` and `bevy_mod_debugdump` help fill the gap until Bevy has its own editor.
- `avian` or `bevy_rapier` helps fill the gap until Bevy has its own physics engine. `avian` is easier to use, while `bevy_rapier` is more performant.
- `bevy_cobweb_ui` is well-aligned with `bevy_ui` and helps fill the gap until Bevy has a full collection of UI widgets and features.

None of these are necessary, but they can save you a lot of time and effort.

## VS Code extensions

If you're using [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), the following extensions are highly recommended:

| Name                                                                                                      | Description                       |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)              | Rust support                      |
| [Even Better TOML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tamasfe.even-better-toml)          | TOML support                      |
| [vscode-ron](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=a5huynh.vscode-ron)                      | RON support                       |
| [Dependi](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=fill-labs.dependi)                          | `crates.io` dependency resolution |
| [EditorConfig for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=EditorConfig.EditorConfig) | `.editorconfig` support           |

> [!NOTE]
> <details>
> <summary>About the included rust-analyzer settings</summary>
>
> This template sets [`rust-analyzer.cargo.targetDir`](https://rust-analyzer.github.io/generated_config.html#rust-analyzer.cargo.targetDir)
> to `true` in [`.vscode/settings.json`](../.vscode/settings.json).
>
> This makes `rust-analyzer` use a different `target` directory than `cargo`,
> which means that you can run commands like `cargo run` even while `rust-analyzer` is still indexing.
> As a trade-off, this will use more disk space.
>
> If that is an issue for you, you can set it to `false` or remove the setting entirely.
> </details>

## RustRover Live Templates

If you're using [RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/rust/), you may want to set up [Live Templates](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rust/using-live-templates.html) to provide autocomplete for common boilerplate code.

Unfortunately, it is not really possible at this time to share Live Templates on a per-project basis, as they are global, however you can still set them up yourself.

Here's a quick guide for porting this template's [VS Code snippets](../.vscode/bevy.code-snippets) to Live Templates:

- Replace any instances of `$0` in the template with `$END$`
- Replace any instances of `$1` in the template with `$NAME$` or something similar.
- For the `plugin` template, you might want to set the applicability to rust modules.
- For the other templates, you might want to set the applicability to rust modules, statements, and expressions.

To make it easier to enable or disable these live templates for different projects, you can put them in a template group called `Bevy`.

## Other templates

There are many other Bevy templates out there.
Check out the [templates category](https://bevyengine.org/assets/#templates) on Bevy Assets for more options.
Even if you don't end up using them, they are a great way to learn how to implement certain features you might be interested in.

Commit message:

Add `bevy_lint` support (#365)
This PR adds
[`bevy_lint`](https://thebevyflock.github.io/bevy_cli/bevy_lint/)
support to the template (the linter is a sister project of the Bevy CLI,
both are in the same
[repository](https://github.com/TheBevyFlock/bevy_cli/tree/main/bevy_lint)).

This PR is currently a work-in-progress, but I'll mark it as
ready-for-review when it's done! :)

---------

Co-authored-by: Ben Frankel <ben.frankel7@gmail.com>

docs/tooling.md, after:

# Recommended 3rd-party tools

Check out the [Bevy Assets](https://bevyengine.org/assets/) page for more great options.

## Libraries

A few libraries that the authors of this template have vetted and think you might find useful:

| Name                                                                                   | Category       | Description                           |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| [`leafwing-input-manager`](https://github.com/Leafwing-Studios/leafwing-input-manager) | Input          | Input -> Action mapping               |
| [`bevy-inspector-egui`](https://github.com/jakobhellermann/bevy-inspector-egui)        | Debugging      | Live entity inspector                 |
| [`bevy_mod_debugdump`](https://github.com/jakobhellermann/bevy_mod_debugdump)          | Debugging      | Schedule inspector                    |
| [`avian`](https://github.com/Jondolf/avian)                                            | Physics        | Physics engine                        |
| [`bevy_rapier`](https://github.com/dimforge/bevy_rapier)                               | Physics        | Physics engine (not ECS-driven)       |
| [`bevy_common_assets`](https://github.com/NiklasEi/bevy_common_assets)                 | Asset loading  | Asset loaders for common file formats |
| [`bevy_asset_loader`](https://github.com/NiklasEi/bevy_asset_loader)                   | Asset loading  | Asset management tools                |
| [`iyes_progress`](https://github.com/IyesGames/iyes_progress)                          | Asset loading  | Progress tracking                     |
| [`bevy_kira_audio`](https://github.com/NiklasEi/bevy_kira_audio)                       | Audio          | Advanced audio                        |
| [`bevy_cobweb_ui`](https://github.com/UkoeHB/bevy_cobweb_ui)                           | UI             | UI framework               |
| [`bevy_egui`](https://github.com/mvlabat/bevy_egui)                                    | UI / Debugging | UI framework (great for debug UI)     |
| [`tiny_bail`](https://github.com/benfrankel/tiny_bail)                                 | Error handling | Error handling macros                 |

In particular:

- `leafwing-input-manager` is very likely to be upstreamed into Bevy in the near future.
- `bevy-inspector-egui` and `bevy_mod_debugdump` help fill the gap until Bevy has its own editor.
- `avian` or `bevy_rapier` helps fill the gap until Bevy has its own physics engine. `avian` is easier to use, while `bevy_rapier` is more performant.
- `bevy_cobweb_ui` is well-aligned with `bevy_ui` and helps fill the gap until Bevy has a full collection of UI widgets and features.

None of these are necessary, but they can save you a lot of time and effort.

## CLI tools

A few command-line tools that you may find useful:

|Name|Description|
|-|-|
|[`bevy_lint`](https://thebevyflock.github.io/bevy_cli/bevy_lint/)|Checks for good practices and footguns specific to Bevy|

> [!NOTE]
>
> `bevy_lint` is run in CI by default (see [workflows](./workflows.md)), but you do not need it to use this template.

## VS Code extensions

If you're using [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), the following extensions are highly recommended:

| Name                                                                                                      | Description                       |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)              | Rust support                      |
| [Even Better TOML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tamasfe.even-better-toml)          | TOML support                      |
| [vscode-ron](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=a5huynh.vscode-ron)                      | RON support                       |
| [Dependi](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=fill-labs.dependi)                          | `crates.io` dependency resolution |
| [EditorConfig for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=EditorConfig.EditorConfig) | `.editorconfig` support           |

> [!NOTE]
> <details>
> <summary>About the included rust-analyzer settings</summary>
>
> This template sets [`rust-analyzer.cargo.targetDir`](https://rust-analyzer.github.io/generated_config.html#rust-analyzer.cargo.targetDir)
> to `true` in [`.vscode/settings.json`](../.vscode/settings.json).
>
> This makes `rust-analyzer` use a different `target` directory than `cargo`,
> which means that you can run commands like `cargo run` even while `rust-analyzer` is still indexing.
> As a trade-off, this will use more disk space.
>
> If that is an issue for you, you can set it to `false` or remove the setting entirely.
> </details>

## RustRover Live Templates

If you're using [RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/rust/), you may want to set up [Live Templates](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rust/using-live-templates.html) to provide autocomplete for common boilerplate code.

Unfortunately, it is not really possible at this time to share Live Templates on a per-project basis, as they are global, however you can still set them up yourself.

Here's a quick guide for porting this template's [VS Code snippets](../.vscode/bevy.code-snippets) to Live Templates:

- Replace any instances of `$0` in the template with `$END$`
- Replace any instances of `$1` in the template with `$NAME$` or something similar.
- For the `plugin` template, you might want to set the applicability to rust modules.
- For the other templates, you might want to set the applicability to rust modules, statements, and expressions.

To make it easier to enable or disable these live templates for different projects, you can put them in a template group called `Bevy`.

## Other templates

There are many other Bevy templates out there.
Check out the [templates category](https://bevyengine.org/assets/#templates) on Bevy Assets for more options.
Even if you don't end up using them, they are a great way to learn how to implement certain features you might be interested in.
